actions/get-latest-workflow-artifact/README.md, before:

# get-latest-workflow-artifact

This action can be used to download the latest artifact of a specific workflow within the context of a pull request.
One use-case for this is to access a report generated by another workflow.

Required permissions:

- `pull-requests: read`
- `actions: read`

| Input                 | Description                                                    | Required | Default                                   |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `workflow-id`         | ID or filename of the workflow                                 | yes      |                                           |
| `artifact-name`       | Name of the artifact to download                               | yes      |                                           |
| `repository`          | Owner/Name                                                     | no       | `${{ github.repository }}`                |
| `pr-number`           | Number of the PR to consider                                   | no       | `${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}` |
| `path`                | Directory to store the artifact in                             | no       | `${{ github.workspace }}`                 |
| `github-token`        | GitHub token                                                   | no       | `${{ github.token }}`                     |
| `consider-inprogress` | Not only consider completed but also in-progress workflow runs | no       | `false`                                   |

| Output                   | Description                                            |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `artifact-download-path` | Path where the artifact was downloaded                 |
| `artifact-id`            | ID of the artifact that was downloaded                 |
| `workflow-run-id`        | ID of the Workflow Run                                 |
| `workflow-run-status`    | Status of the found run (`in_progress` or `completed`) |

Commit message:

feat(get-latest-workflow-artifact): consider runs triggered by comments
If a workflow is triggered by a comment, we have no clear way to
associate it with a PR through the head_sha. Instead we have to look at
the time and title of the run. This is not completely reliable but
should be "good enough" for most cases. Due to that it is disabled by
default.

actions/get-latest-workflow-artifact/README.md, after:

# get-latest-workflow-artifact

This action can be used to download the latest artifact of a specific workflow within the context of a pull request.
One use-case for this is to access a report generated by another workflow.

Required permissions:

- `pull-requests: read`
- `actions: read`

| Input                 | Description                                                    | Required | Default                                   |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `workflow-id`         | ID or filename of the workflow                                 | yes      |                                           |
| `artifact-name`       | Name of the artifact to download                               | yes      |                                           |
| `repository`          | Owner/Name                                                     | no       | `${{ github.repository }}`                |
| `pr-number`           | Number of the PR to consider                                   | no       | `${{ github.event.pull_request.number }}` |
| `path`                | Directory to store the artifact in                             | no       | `${{ github.workspace }}`                 |
| `github-token`        | GitHub token                                                   | no       | `${{ github.token }}`                     |
| `consider-inprogress` | Not only consider completed but also in-progress workflow runs | no       | `false`                                   |
| `consider-comments`   | Also look for workflow runs triggered by comments              | no       | `false`                                   |

| Output                   | Description                                            |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `artifact-download-path` | Path where the artifact was downloaded                 |
| `artifact-id`            | ID of the artifact that was downloaded                 |
| `workflow-run-id`        | ID of the Workflow Run                                 |
| `workflow-run-status`    | Status of the found run (`in_progress` or `completed`) |
