actions/login-to-gcs/README.md, before:

# login-to-gcs

This is a composite GitHub Action, used to push objects to a bucket in Google Cloud Storage (GCS).
It uses [OIDC authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect)
which means that only workflows which get triggered based on certain rules can
trigger these composite workflows.

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
name: Login-to-gcs

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

permissions:
  contents: read
  id-token: write

jobs:
  login-to-gcs:
    name: login-to-gcs
    steps:
      - uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/login-to-gcs@login-to-gcs-v0.1.0
        id: login-to-gcs
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->

You can now use the shared-workflow `push-to-gcs` or gcloud to push objects from your CI pipeline.

Ex:

```
$ gcloud storage cp OBJECT_LOCATION gs://DESTINATION_BUCKET_NAME
```

## Inputs

| Name                     | Type   | Description                                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `bucket`                 | String | Name of bucket to upload to. Will default to grafanalabs-${repository.name}-${environment} |
| `environment`            | String | Environment for pushing artifacts (can be either dev or prod).                             |
| `custom_service_account` | String | Custom service account to use for authentication.                                          |

## Outputs

| Name     | Type   | Description                                   |
| -------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| `bucket` | String | Name of the bucket that was authenticated to. |

Commit message:

s/custom_service_account/service_account/g
Fix description

actions/login-to-gcs/README.md, after:

# login-to-gcs

This is a composite GitHub Action, used to push objects to a bucket in Google Cloud Storage (GCS).
It uses [OIDC authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect)
which means that only workflows which get triggered based on certain rules can
trigger these composite workflows.

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
name: Login-to-gcs

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main

permissions:
  contents: read
  id-token: write

jobs:
  login-to-gcs:
    name: login-to-gcs
    steps:
      - uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/login-to-gcs@login-to-gcs-v0.1.0
        id: login-to-gcs
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->

You can now use the shared-workflow `push-to-gcs` or gcloud to push objects from your CI pipeline.

Ex:

```
$ gcloud storage cp OBJECT_LOCATION gs://DESTINATION_BUCKET_NAME
```

## Inputs

| Name              | Type   | Description                                                                                                       |
| ----------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `bucket`          | String | Name of bucket to upload to. Will default to grafanalabs-${repository.name}-${environment}                        |
| `environment`     | String | Environment for pushing artifacts (can be either dev or prod).                                                    |
| `service_account` | String | Service account to use for authentication. Use it only when the service account is different than the default one |

## Outputs

| Name     | Type   | Description                                   |
| -------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| `bucket` | String | Name of the bucket that was authenticated to. |
