actions/lint-pr-title/README.md, before:

# Lint pull request title

This is a [Github Action](https://github.com/features/actions) that ensures that your PR title matches the [Commitlint Spec](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint) according to the configuration file.

This is helpful when using the "Squash and merge" strategy, Github will suggest to use the PR title as the commit message. With this action you can validate that the PR title will lead to a correct commit message.

## Build

If you make any change on the `index.js` file, you should build the code before to commit the changes using the command:

```
yarn build
```

## Validation

Examples for valid PR titles:

- fix(some-scope): correct typo.
- feat: add support for Node 12.

### The commit config

This action uses the following commitlint configuration rules:

```
{
  'body-leading-blank': [1, 'always'],
  'body-max-line-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'footer-leading-blank': [1, 'always'],
  'footer-max-line-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'header-max-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'subject-case': [2, 'never', ['sentence-case', 'start-case', 'pascal-case', 'upper-case']],
  'subject-empty': [2, 'never'],
  'subject-full-stop': [2, 'never', '.'],
  'type-case': [2, 'always', 'lower-case'],
  'type-empty': [2, 'never'],
  'type-enum': [
    2,
    'always',
    ['build', 'chore', 'ci', 'docs', 'feat', 'fix', 'perf', 'refactor', 'revert', 'style', 'test']
  ]
}
```

You can adjust the `commitlint.config.js` if required.

## Example workflow:

```yml
name: Lint pull request title

on:
  pull_request:
    types:
      - opened
      - edited
      - synchronize

jobs:
  main:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/lint-pr-title@main
        id: lint-pr-title
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

Commit message:

update readme with config-path parameter

actions/lint-pr-title/README.md, after:

# Lint pull request title

This is a [Github Action](https://github.com/features/actions) that ensures that your PR title matches the [Commitlint Spec](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint) according to the configuration file.

This is helpful when using the "Squash and merge" strategy, Github will suggest to use the PR title as the commit message. With this action you can validate that the PR title will lead to a correct commit message.

## Build

If you make any change on the `index.js` file, you should build the code before to commit the changes using the command:

```
yarn build
```

## Validation

Examples for valid PR titles:

- fix(some-scope): correct typo.
- feat: add support for Node 12.

### The commit config

This action can receive the `commitlint.config.js` file using the input parameter `config-path`.
This parameter should contain the absolute path of the file and start the path definition with `${{ github.workspace }}/`. See example below:

```
...
    uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/lint-pr-title@main
    with:
      config-path: '${{ github.workspace }}/folder1/folder2/commitlint.config.js'
...

```
but this `config-path` parameter is optional. If you don't want to define it, the action will use the following rules by default:

```
{
  'body-leading-blank': [1, 'always'],
  'body-max-line-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'footer-leading-blank': [1, 'always'],
  'footer-max-line-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'header-max-length': [2, 'always', 100],
  'subject-case': [2, 'never', ['sentence-case', 'start-case', 'pascal-case', 'upper-case']],
  'subject-empty': [2, 'never'],
  'subject-full-stop': [2, 'never', '.'],
  'type-case': [2, 'always', 'lower-case'],
  'type-empty': [2, 'never'],
  'type-enum': [
    2,
    'always',
    ['build', 'chore', 'ci', 'docs', 'feat', 'fix', 'perf', 'refactor', 'revert', 'style', 'test']
  ]
}
```

## Example workflow:

```yml
name: Lint PR title

on:
  pull_request:
    types:
      - opened
      - edited
      - synchronize

jobs:
  lint-pr-title:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - id: lint-pr-title
        uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/lint-pr-title@main
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```
