actions/trigger-argo-workflow/README.md, before:

# Trigger Argo Workflow Action

This GitHub action triggers an Argo workflow in one of the Grafana Labs Argo
Workflows instances. It contains a small wrapper around the `argo` CLI, which is
downloaded as part of the action.

As our Argo Workflows instances require authentication, this workflow will only
work when triggered from a `grafana`-owned repository. We would welcome
contributions to extend this action to work with any instance, or you are free
to fork and modify to run on your own instances. See [#21][issue-21].

[issue-21]: https://github.com/grafana/shared-workflows/issues/21

## How to use

## Inputs

- `instance`: The instance to use (`dev` or `ops`). Defaults to `ops`.
- `namespace`: Required. The namespace to trigger the workflow in.
- `parameters`: The newline-separated parameters to pass to the Argo workflow. Example:

```yaml
parameters: |
  param1=value1
  param2=value2
```

- `workflow_template`: The workflow template to use. Required if `command` is `submit` (the default).
- `extra_args`: Extra arguments to pass to the Argo CLI. Example: `--generate-name foo-`
- `log_level`: The log level to use. Choose from `debug`, `info`, `warn` or `error`. Defaults to `info`.

## Outputs

- `uri`: The URI of the workflow that was created.

## Usage

Here is an example of how to use this action:

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Trigger Argo Workflow
uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/trigger-argo-workflow@trigger-argo-workflow-v1.0.0
with:
  instance: "ops"
  namespace: "mynamespace"
  workflow_template: "hello"
  parameters: |
    message=world
  extra_args: "--generate-name hello-world-"
  log_level: "debug"
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->

Commit message:

feat(docs): added EngHub doc links to corresponding actions readmes (#635)
* added enghub links to corresponding actions readmes

* added enghub doc link to trigger-argo-workflow

* addressed PR comments, changed some wording & format of internal docs notices

* reverted accidental formatting change

actions/trigger-argo-workflow/README.md, after:

# Trigger Argo Workflow Action

> [!NOTE]
> If you are at Grafana Labs, see the [internal documentation](https://enghub.grafana-ops.net/docs/default/component/deployment-tools/platform/continuous-delivery/argo-workflows/#triggering-a-workflow-from-github-actions) for information on how to set up Argo Workflows and configure them to be triggerable by this action.

This GitHub action triggers an Argo workflow in one of the Grafana Labs Argo
Workflows instances. It contains a small wrapper around the `argo` CLI, which is
downloaded as part of the action.

As our Argo Workflows instances require authentication, this workflow will only
work when triggered from a `grafana`-owned repository. We would welcome
contributions to extend this action to work with any instance, or you are free
to fork and modify to run on your own instances. See [#21][issue-21].

[issue-21]: https://github.com/grafana/shared-workflows/issues/21

## How to use

## Inputs

- `instance`: The instance to use (`dev` or `ops`). Defaults to `ops`.
- `namespace`: Required. The namespace to trigger the workflow in.
- `parameters`: The newline-separated parameters to pass to the Argo workflow. Example:

```yaml
parameters: |
  param1=value1
  param2=value2
```

- `workflow_template`: The workflow template to use. Required if `command` is `submit` (the default).
- `extra_args`: Extra arguments to pass to the Argo CLI. Example: `--generate-name foo-`
- `log_level`: The log level to use. Choose from `debug`, `info`, `warn` or `error`. Defaults to `info`.

## Outputs

- `uri`: The URI of the workflow that was created.

## Usage

Here is an example of how to use this action:

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Trigger Argo Workflow
uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/trigger-argo-workflow@trigger-argo-workflow-v1.0.0
with:
  instance: "ops"
  namespace: "mynamespace"
  workflow_template: "hello"
  parameters: |
    message=world
  extra_args: "--generate-name hello-world-"
  log_level: "debug"
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->
