actions/push-to-gar-docker/README.md, before:

# push-to-gar-docker

> [!NOTE]
> If you are at Grafana Labs:
>
> - Follow these steps in the [internal
>   documentation](https://enghub.grafana-ops.net/docs/default/component/deployment-tools/platform/continuous-integration/google-artifact-registry/)
>   to set up a repository before using this action.
> - A docker mirror is available on our self-hosted runners, see [the internal
>   documentation](https://enghub.grafana-ops.net/docs/default/component/deployment-tools/platform/continuous-integration/#docker-caching-in-github-actions)
>   for more info.

This is a composite GitHub Action, used to push docker images to Google Artifact
Registry (GAR). It uses [OIDC
authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect),
which means that only workflows which get triggered based on certain rules can
trigger these composite workflows.

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  build-and-push:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    # These permissions are needed to assume roles from Github's OIDC.
    permissions:
      contents: read
      id-token: write
    steps:
      - id: checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          persist-credentials: false

      - id: push-to-gar
        uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/push-to-gar-docker@push-to-gar-docker/v0.6.1
        with:
          registry: "<YOUR-GAR>" # e.g. us-docker.pkg.dev, optional
          tags: |-
            "<IMAGE_TAG>"
            "latest"
          context: "<YOUR_CONTEXT>" # e.g. "." - where the Dockerfile is
          image_name: "backstage" # name of the image to be published, required
          environment: "dev" # can be either dev/prod
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->

[Artifact Registry repositories can't contain underscores][underscore-issue].
As a convention, this action will replace any underscores in the repository name
with hyphens. That behaviour can be overridden using the `repository_name`
input.

[underscore-issue]: https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/229159012

## Inputs

| Name                      | Type    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                            |
| ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `build-args`              | String  | List of arguments necessary for the Docker image to be built.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                    |
| `build-contexts`          | String  | List of additional [build contexts](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs) (e.g., `name=path`)                                                                                                                                             |                                    |
| `builder`                 | String  | Name of the buildx builder to use. If not specified, a new builder will be created. This is useful when you need to reuse a builder, for example with buildkit-cache-dance.                                                                                                |                                    |
| `cache-from`              | String  | Where cache should be fetched from. Passed to [docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs). [More about GHA and container caching](https://www.kenmuse.com/blog/implementing-docker-layer-caching-in-github-actions/) | type=gha                           |
| `cache-to`                | String  | Where cache should be stored to. Passed to [docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs). [More about GHA and container caching](https://www.kenmuse.com/blog/implementing-docker-layer-caching-in-github-actions/)    | type=gha,mode=max                  |
| `context`                 | String  | Path to the Docker build context.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | .                                  |
| `delete_credentials_file` | Boolean | Delete the credentials file after the action is finished. If you want to keep the credentials file for a later step, set this to false.                                                                                                                                    | true                               |
| `docker-buildx-driver`    | String  | The [driver](https://github.com/docker/setup-buildx-action/tree/v3/?tab=readme-ov-file#customizing) to use for Docker Buildx                                                                                                                                               | docker-container                   |
| `environment`             | String  | Environment for pushing artifacts (can be either dev or prod).                                                                                                                                                                                                             | dev                                |
| `file`                    | String  | Path and filename of the dockerfile to build from. (Default: `{context}/Dockerfile`)                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                    |
| `image_name`              | String  | Name of the image to be pushed to GAR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                    |
| `labels`                  | String  | List of custom labels to add to the image as metadata (see the [metadata-action](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs)) for details                                                                                                         |                                    |
| `load`                    | Boolean | Whether to load the built image into the local docker daemon.                                                                                                                                                                                                              | false                              |
| `platforms`               | String  | List of platforms the image should be built for (e.g. `linux/amd64,linux/arm64`)                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                    |
| `push`                    | String  | Whether to push the image to the registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ${{ github.event_name == 'push' }} |
| `registry`                | String  | Google Artifact Registry to store docker images in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | us-docker.pkg.dev                  |
| `repository_name`         | String  | Override the 'repo_name' which is included as part of the GAR repository name. Only necessary when the GAR includes a repo name that doesn't match the GitHub repo name. required: false                                                                                   |                                    |
| `secrets`                 | String  | Secrets to [expose to the build](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action). Only needed when authenticating to private repositories outside the repository in which the image is being built.                                                                           |                                    |
| `ssh`                     | String  | List of SSH agent socket or keys to expose to the build ([more about ssh for docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs))                                                                                             |                                    |
| `tags`                    | String  | Tags that should be used for the image (see the [metadata-action][mda] for details)                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                    |
| `target`                  | String  | Name of the [build stage](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/) to target.                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                    |

## Outputs

| Name          | Type   | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `annotations` | String | Generated annotations (from docker/metadata-action)          |
| `builder`     | String | Name of the buildx builder used                              |
| `digest`      | String | Image digest (from docker/build-push-action)                 |
| `imageid`     | String | Image ID (from docker/build-push-action)                     |
| `json`        | String | JSON output of tags and labels (from docker/metadata-action) |
| `labels`      | String | Generated Docker labels (from docker/metadata-action)        |
| `metadata`    | String | Build result metadata (from docker/build-push-action)        |
| `tags`        | String | Generated Docker tags (from docker/metadata-action)          |
| `version`     | String | Generated Docker image version (from docker/metadata-action) |

[mda]: https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#tags-input

## Outputs

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Be careful when handling the `metadata` output. This contains user-supplied
> information, and so it can be a vector for template injection.

The following outputs are exposed from [`docker/metadata-action`](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#outputs) and [`docker/build-push-action`](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#outputs):

| Name          | Type   | Description                    | From                       |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `version`     | String | Generated Docker image version | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `tags`        | String | Generated Docker tags          | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `labels`      | String | Generated Docker labels        | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `annotations` | String | Generated annotations          | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `json`        | String | JSON output of tags and labels | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `imageid`     | String | Image ID                       | `docker/build-push-action` |
| `digest`      | String | Image digest                   | `docker/build-push-action` |
| `metadata`    | String | Build result metadata          | `docker/build-push-action` |

Commit message:

chore(multiple): deprecate old docker actions and add migration guide (#1606)

actions/push-to-gar-docker/README.md, after:

# push-to-gar-docker

> [!WARNING]
> This GitHub Action is deprecated and will be removed from main after Jan 31, 2026.
> Please migrate to [docker-build-push-image](https://github.com/grafana/shared-workflows/tree/main/actions/docker-build-push-image#migrating).

> [!NOTE]
> If you are at Grafana Labs:
>
> - Follow these steps in the [internal
>   documentation](https://enghub.grafana-ops.net/docs/default/component/deployment-tools/platform/continuous-integration/google-artifact-registry/)
>   to set up a repository before using this action.
> - A docker mirror is available on our self-hosted runners, see [the internal
>   documentation](https://enghub.grafana-ops.net/docs/default/component/deployment-tools/platform/continuous-integration/#docker-caching-in-github-actions)
>   for more info.

This is a composite GitHub Action, used to push docker images to Google Artifact
Registry (GAR). It uses [OIDC
authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/about-security-hardening-with-openid-connect),
which means that only workflows which get triggered based on certain rules can
trigger these composite workflows.

<!-- x-release-please-start-version -->

```yaml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  build-and-push:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    # These permissions are needed to assume roles from Github's OIDC.
    permissions:
      contents: read
      id-token: write
    steps:
      - id: checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          persist-credentials: false

      - id: push-to-gar
        uses: grafana/shared-workflows/actions/push-to-gar-docker@push-to-gar-docker/v0.6.1
        with:
          registry: "<YOUR-GAR>" # e.g. us-docker.pkg.dev, optional
          tags: |-
            "<IMAGE_TAG>"
            "latest"
          context: "<YOUR_CONTEXT>" # e.g. "." - where the Dockerfile is
          image_name: "backstage" # name of the image to be published, required
          environment: "dev" # can be either dev/prod
```

<!-- x-release-please-end-version -->

[Artifact Registry repositories can't contain underscores][underscore-issue].
As a convention, this action will replace any underscores in the repository name
with hyphens. That behaviour can be overridden using the `repository_name`
input.

[underscore-issue]: https://issuetracker.google.com/issues/229159012

## Inputs

| Name                      | Type    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                            |
| ------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `build-args`              | String  | List of arguments necessary for the Docker image to be built.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                    |
| `build-contexts`          | String  | List of additional [build contexts](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs) (e.g., `name=path`)                                                                                                                                             |                                    |
| `builder`                 | String  | Name of the buildx builder to use. If not specified, a new builder will be created. This is useful when you need to reuse a builder, for example with buildkit-cache-dance.                                                                                                |                                    |
| `cache-from`              | String  | Where cache should be fetched from. Passed to [docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs). [More about GHA and container caching](https://www.kenmuse.com/blog/implementing-docker-layer-caching-in-github-actions/) | type=gha                           |
| `cache-to`                | String  | Where cache should be stored to. Passed to [docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs). [More about GHA and container caching](https://www.kenmuse.com/blog/implementing-docker-layer-caching-in-github-actions/)    | type=gha,mode=max                  |
| `context`                 | String  | Path to the Docker build context.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | .                                  |
| `delete_credentials_file` | Boolean | Delete the credentials file after the action is finished. If you want to keep the credentials file for a later step, set this to false.                                                                                                                                    | true                               |
| `docker-buildx-driver`    | String  | The [driver](https://github.com/docker/setup-buildx-action/tree/v3/?tab=readme-ov-file#customizing) to use for Docker Buildx                                                                                                                                               | docker-container                   |
| `environment`             | String  | Environment for pushing artifacts (can be either dev or prod).                                                                                                                                                                                                             | dev                                |
| `file`                    | String  | Path and filename of the dockerfile to build from. (Default: `{context}/Dockerfile`)                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                    |
| `image_name`              | String  | Name of the image to be pushed to GAR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                    |
| `labels`                  | String  | List of custom labels to add to the image as metadata (see the [metadata-action](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs)) for details                                                                                                         |                                    |
| `load`                    | Boolean | Whether to load the built image into the local docker daemon.                                                                                                                                                                                                              | false                              |
| `platforms`               | String  | List of platforms the image should be built for (e.g. `linux/amd64,linux/arm64`)                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                    |
| `push`                    | String  | Whether to push the image to the registry.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | ${{ github.event_name == 'push' }} |
| `registry`                | String  | Google Artifact Registry to store docker images in.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | us-docker.pkg.dev                  |
| `repository_name`         | String  | Override the 'repo_name' which is included as part of the GAR repository name. Only necessary when the GAR includes a repo name that doesn't match the GitHub repo name. required: false                                                                                   |                                    |
| `secrets`                 | String  | Secrets to [expose to the build](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action). Only needed when authenticating to private repositories outside the repository in which the image is being built.                                                                           |                                    |
| `ssh`                     | String  | List of SSH agent socket or keys to expose to the build ([more about ssh for docker/build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#inputs))                                                                                             |                                    |
| `tags`                    | String  | Tags that should be used for the image (see the [metadata-action][mda] for details)                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                    |
| `target`                  | String  | Name of the [build stage](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-stage/) to target.                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                    |

## Outputs

| Name          | Type   | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `annotations` | String | Generated annotations (from docker/metadata-action)          |
| `builder`     | String | Name of the buildx builder used                              |
| `digest`      | String | Image digest (from docker/build-push-action)                 |
| `imageid`     | String | Image ID (from docker/build-push-action)                     |
| `json`        | String | JSON output of tags and labels (from docker/metadata-action) |
| `labels`      | String | Generated Docker labels (from docker/metadata-action)        |
| `metadata`    | String | Build result metadata (from docker/build-push-action)        |
| `tags`        | String | Generated Docker tags (from docker/metadata-action)          |
| `version`     | String | Generated Docker image version (from docker/metadata-action) |

[mda]: https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#tags-input

## Outputs

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Be careful when handling the `metadata` output. This contains user-supplied
> information, and so it can be a vector for template injection.

The following outputs are exposed from [`docker/metadata-action`](https://github.com/docker/metadata-action?tab=readme-ov-file#outputs) and [`docker/build-push-action`](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action?tab=readme-ov-file#outputs):

| Name          | Type   | Description                    | From                       |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `version`     | String | Generated Docker image version | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `tags`        | String | Generated Docker tags          | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `labels`      | String | Generated Docker labels        | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `annotations` | String | Generated annotations          | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `json`        | String | JSON output of tags and labels | `docker/metadata-action`   |
| `imageid`     | String | Image ID                       | `docker/build-push-action` |
| `digest`      | String | Image digest                   | `docker/build-push-action` |
| `metadata`    | String | Build result metadata          | `docker/build-push-action` |
