actions/techdocs-rewrite-relative-links/README.md, before:

# Techdocs: Rewrite relative links

**Note:** This action is intended to be primarily used within the publish-techdocs workflow.

This action's job is to scan through all the Markdown files inside the docs
folder (based on the presence of an `mkdocs.yml` file) and rewrite relative
links that point to files *outside* that docs folder folder to absolute ones.

## Usage

The following example will check out the shared-workflows project and run the action from it.
The action will then check inside the working directory if there is a `mkdocs.yml` file and process the docs mentioned in there.

Assuming that the docs folder for mkdocs is located at `/workspace/docs` and there is a `filename.md` in there with content like this:

```markdown
[outside link](../README.md)
```

Then this link inside the file will be changed to ...

```markdown
[outside link](https://github.com/grafana/reponame/blob/main/README.md)
```

```yaml
- id: checkout-shared-workflows
  name: Checkout shared workflows
  uses: actions/checkout@b4ffde65f46336ab88eb53be808477a3936bae11 # v4.1.1
  with:
    repository: grafana/shared-workflows
    ref: main
    path: _shared-workflows

- name: Rewrite relative links
  uses: ./_shared-workflows/actions/techdocs-rewrite-relative-links
  with:
    working-directory: ./
    repo-url: "https://github.com/${{ github.repository }}"
    default-branch: "${{ github.event.repository.default_branch }}"
    dry-run: false

    # Since the previous step already checked out the shared-workflows repo, we can use that:
    skip-checkout: true
    checkout-path: _shared-workflows
```

Follow that up with the actions that should publish the docs to EngHub. See [the `publish-techdocs.yaml` workflow](https://github.com/grafana/shared-workflows/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish-techdocs.yaml) for details.


## Inputs

| Name | Type | Description |
|-|-|-|
| `default-branch` (required) | string | Default branch name of the repository |
| `repo-url` (required) | string | Full URL to the GitHub repository |
| `working-directory` (required) | string | Directory containing the `mkdocs.yml` file |
| `dry-run` | boolean | Do not modify the files but print a diff |
| `checkout-path` (default: `_action`) | string | Folder where the repository should be checked out to for running the action |
| `skip-checkout` (default: `false`) | boolean | If the workflow already checks out the shared-workflows repository, you can skip the additional checkout inside the action |

Commit message:

Rename skip-checkout to checkout

actions/techdocs-rewrite-relative-links/README.md, after:

# Techdocs: Rewrite relative links

**Note:** This action is intended to be primarily used within the publish-techdocs workflow.

This action's job is to scan through all the Markdown files inside the docs
folder (based on the presence of an `mkdocs.yml` file) and rewrite relative
links that point to files *outside* that docs folder folder to absolute ones.

## Usage

The following example will check out the shared-workflows project and run the action from it.
The action will then check inside the working directory if there is a `mkdocs.yml` file and process the docs mentioned in there.

Assuming that the docs folder for mkdocs is located at `/workspace/docs` and there is a `filename.md` in there with content like this:

```markdown
[outside link](../README.md)
```

Then this link inside the file will be changed to ...

```markdown
[outside link](https://github.com/grafana/reponame/blob/main/README.md)
```

```yaml
- id: checkout-shared-workflows
  name: Checkout shared workflows
  uses: actions/checkout@b4ffde65f46336ab88eb53be808477a3936bae11 # v4.1.1
  with:
    repository: grafana/shared-workflows
    ref: main
    path: _shared-workflows

- name: Rewrite relative links
  uses: ./_shared-workflows/actions/techdocs-rewrite-relative-links
  with:
    working-directory: ./
    repo-url: "https://github.com/${{ github.repository }}"
    default-branch: "${{ github.event.repository.default_branch }}"
    dry-run: false

    # Since the previous step already checked out the shared-workflows repo, we can use that:
    skip-checkout: true
    checkout-path: _shared-workflows
```

Follow that up with the actions that should publish the docs to EngHub. See [the `publish-techdocs.yaml` workflow](https://github.com/grafana/shared-workflows/blob/main/.github/workflows/publish-techdocs.yaml) for details.


## Inputs

| Name | Type | Description |
|-|-|-|
| `default-branch` (required) | string | Default branch name of the repository |
| `repo-url` (required) | string | Full URL to the GitHub repository |
| `working-directory` (required) | string | Directory containing the `mkdocs.yml` file |
| `dry-run` | boolean | Do not modify the files but print a diff |
| `checkout-path` (default: `_action`) | string | Folder where the repository should be checked out to for running the action or where a checkout already exists |
| `checkout` (default: `true`) | boolean | If the workflow already checks out the shared-workflows repository, you can set this to false |
